Fixed #27719 -- Added QuerySet.alias() to allow creating reusable aliases. (#12971)
django/django: docs/ref/models/querysets.txt

For an in-depth discussion of aggregation, see :doc:`the topic guide on
Aggregation </topics/db/aggregation>`.

``alias()``
~~~~~~~~~~~

.. method:: alias(*args, **kwargs)

.. versionadded:: 3.2

Same as :meth:`~django.db.models.query.QuerySet.annotate()`, but instead of
annotating objects in the ``QuerySet``, saves the expression for later reuse with
other ``QuerySet`` methods. This is useful when
the result of the expression itself is not needed but is used for filtering,
ordering, or as a part of a complex expression. Not selecting the unused value
removes redundant work from the database which should result in better performance.

For example, if you were manipulating a list of blogs, you may want
to find blogs with more than 5 entries, but not actually interested
in the exact number of entries::

    >>> from django.db.models import Count
    >>> blogs = Blog.objects.alias(entries=Count('entry')).filter(entries__gt=5)

``alias()`` can be used in conjunction with
:meth:`~django.db.models.query.QuerySet.annotate()`,
:meth:`~django.db.models.query.QuerySet.filter()`,
:meth:`~django.db.models.query.QuerySet.order_by()`
and :meth:`~django.db.models.query.QuerySet.update()`.

> To use aliased expression with other methods (e.g. aggregate), one must promote alias to annotation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use aliased expression with other methods (e.g. :meth:`aggregate`), one must promote alias to annotation:
```

    >>> Blog.objects.alias(entries=Count('entry')).annotate(entries=F('entries')).aggregate(Sum('entries'))

:meth:`~django.db.models.query.QuerySet.filter()` and
:meth:`~django.db.models.query.QuerySet.order_by()`
can take expressions directly, but expression construction and usage often does
not happen in the same place (for example, ``QuerySet``

> method creates expression, to be later used by the view).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
method creates expressions, for later use in views).
```

> Also ``alias()`` allows you to build complex expressions incrementally,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``alias()`` allows building complex expressions incrementally,
```

possibly spanning multiple methods and modules, refer to the expression parts
by their aliases and only use

> :meth:`~django.db.models.query.QuerySet.annotate()` for the final result.

Reviewer: Wrap docs at 79 chars. You can also simplify all references to `QuerySet`\'s methods in this doc, e.g. `` :meth:`~django.db.models.query.QuerySet.filter()` `` -> `` :meth:`filter` ``. Also `()` are added automatically when you use `:meth:`.

For an in-depth discussion of aggregation, see :doc:`the topic guide on
Aggregation </topics/db/aggregation>`.

``alias()``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> .. method:: alias(*args, **kwargs)

Reviewer 2: You we really allow `*args` to be passed here? It doesn't look like its tested below and it seems like using `alias` with the few number of expressions that implement default naming is unlikely.

itself is not needed but is used for filtering, ordering, or as a part of
a complex expression. By not selecting the actual value, one can construct
a smaller SQL query, return less data from the database, and avoid double evaluation
of costly expressions, which results in better performance.

For example, if you were manipulating a list of blogs, you may want
to find blogs with more than 5 entries, but not actually interested
in the exact number of entries::

    >>> from django.db.models import Count
    >>> blogs = Blog.objects.alias(entries=Count('entry')).filter(entries__gt=5)

Despite the value not being selected, all other effects of using ``alias()`` are
the same as of ``annotate()``.

``alias()`` can be used in conjunction with
:meth:`~django.db.models.query.QuerySet.annotate()`,
:meth:`~django.db.models.query.QuerySet.filter()`,
:meth:`~django.db.models.query.QuerySet.order_by()`
and :meth:`~django.db.models.query.QuerySet.update()`.
To use aliased expression with other methods, one must promote alias to annotation:

    >>> from django.db.models import Count, F
    >>> blogs = Blog.objects.alias(entries=Count('entry')).annotate(entries=F('entries'))

> 

Reviewer 2: Should the `aggregate` limitation be explicitly specified here (talking about `Cannot aggregate over the alias. Use annotate() to promote the alias`) or is it implied by the fact it's not mentioned.

I find

> Despite the value not being selected, all other effects of using ``alias()`` are the same as of ``annotate()``.

contradicts

> ... To use aliased expression with other methods, one must promote alias to annotation:

Maybe we should drop the _Despite_ paragraph?

Author: `aggregate` limitation is implied by the fact it's not mentioned in the list of supported methods. We can probably add it as an example `with other methods (e.g. aggregate) `

I think we can drop the first  the Despite paragraph.
